The syntax of async/await is surprisingly simple,
just two new keywords.
Using async/await effectively though,
is a matter of truly understanding the effect of these two words.
Perhaps more than any other topic in this course,
I have seen a lot of misunderstanding around the use of async/await.
As we explore the syntax in this video,
I'll make sure to point out the most common places to go wrong.
As we get started, it's important to remember that
promises and async/await are just syntactic sugar.
In the same way that anything you can do with promises can be achieved with callbacks,
everything you can do with async/await can be done with promises,
but there are some nice syntax features you'll miss out on.
First, let's take a look at the await keyword.
In the last section,
we talked about how the asynchronous nature of
promises can make the results difficult to use in our programs.
We said that async/await was meant to make this easier
by making our asynchronous code behaves synchronously.
This is what the await word does.
When you put a wait in front of a function that returns a promise,
it causes that promise to block the program until the promise is fulfilled.
Awesome, that's a cool trick.
But we can't just start throwing the await word around anywhere we want.
We only wield the power of a wait
inside of a function that has the async word in front of it.
The async word does two things: It let's us use
the await word and it forces the function that is called on to return a promise.
Let's take a look at an example of all this though.
You'll recognize this code example from the last section.
Again, it doesn't work because the math tries to run before the promises are fulfilled.
Let's try our new async/await syntax and see if we can make this better.
In this example, I've added the async word before
the function and added the await word before each promise call.
The console logs will show us what's happening as the function runs.
You can see that each console log is only
happening after each promise is fully completed,
which allows us to get a solution of 11 when we finally do the math in the last step.
Now we have a working program.
You can see that the await word turned our promise
into a blocking operation so that when we go to do the math later on,
we can be confident that we're working with two numbers instead of two pending promises.
Now, you might be thinking that making something
asynchronous act synchronous is going backwards.
Aren't we getting less efficient when we do this?
If you were already asking yourself that question,
you're doing great because that is really the key point behind using async/await well.
We only want to use async/await to make it easier to
wait for values we were going to have to wait for anyway.
Like in this case,
if you're going to do math with two numbers,
then there's no way around waiting for those two numbers before getting a sum.
async/await gives the developer the power and responsibility to choose
what actions should behave in a non-blocking manner and which will need to be blocking.
One last code example will be a quick one just to show you what I meant
about the async word forcing the function to return a promise.
Here I have the same code as above,
but I'm console logging the function immediately after it's
called and then again after everything is resolved.
If I run this code,
you can see that I get a promise pending which means that our function,
HandleManyThings, is indeed a promise.
But we don't use the promise keyword anywhere,
it's only a promise because the async word forces it to be one.
Then after everything is resolved and we console log it again,
you can see that it's a promise that has been resolved.
I hope this gives you a better feel for what is going on with async/await.
There are some challenges up next,
so get ready for some practice.